### Digital Automating Coupling Migration Decision Support System {.project}

**The Digital Automatic Coupling (DAC) will be the major move towards competitive and digital rail traffic. There is widespread consensus that the roll-out of the DAC should be supported. But how to migrate about 500 thousand freight wagons as well as locomotives and maintenance vehicles from the current screw-coupler to the modern DAC? This is where the DAC Migration DSS comes into play. DSS stands for Decision Support System.**

#### The goal: A DSS for all stages of migration planing

This system aims at supporting all planning stages of DAC Migration. Three stages have been identified:

* **Strategic Planning:** In this phase a pan-European rough-cut plan for migration is set up. At this point in time data available is not detailed and not reliable. There is a high degree of freedom and many properties of the migration process can still be formed. Therefore, many scenarios have to be computed. Only few people which are especially trained are working with the DSS, therefore the user interface can be low-level.
* **Detailed Planning:** In this phase rail undertakings and wagon keepers as well as other organizations have to conduct the planning. The plans on corporate level are detailed and accurate data is available. The corporate plans have to be but together on European level by an organization in charge e.g. the DAC Deployment Manager. Thus, the DSS has to provide a comfortable user-interface and support coordination and collaboration. In this phase corporations also apply for grants and funding for the DAC retrofit, therefore a direct interface from the DAC Migration DSS to the funding entities has to be set up.
* **Monitoring:** Once the migration started, progress has to be monitored on corporate as well as on centralized level. Interfaces to legacy maintenance systems have to be set up and data has to be visualized for decision makers. If there is a deviation from the original plan quickly scenarios on how to catch up have to be set up.</li>

#### The current status of the DAC Migration DSS

* Whitepaper: Contains concepts for DAC Migration DSS including functional and non-functional requirements.
* Mathematical Model: [Linear Model](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation/dac-migration-dss/blob/main/doc/DAK_Migration_DSS_Model_V2.0.pdf) formulated
* Drei-Länderhack: Offering a challenge for the "3-Länderhack" which took place in Berlin from 30.09. to 02.10.2024. The team working on this challenge produced the [PopupSim tool](https://openrail-playground.github.io/PopupSim/) which is a protype of simulation tool for special aspects of DAC Migration. It won the 3rd price.
* DACFIT-project started: Research project funded by Europe's rail (Call: HORIZON-JU-ER-2023-01, Project 101178150) which will enable the first steps of implementation.The first minimal viable implementation of the DAC Migration DSS is forseen for Mid-October 2025. Until Mid-October 2026 the first plan has to be generated by the DSS.

#### Current challenges

Although the first step is funded by DACFIT the further implementation of the DAC Migration DSS requires additional funding. The signs for funding the overall DAC Migration are promising. It will be
important to promote the DAC Migration DSS as a fundamental part of the roll-out.
