### Netzgrafik-Editor
**Netzgrafik-Editor (NGE) is a mature tool for creating and analyzing regular-interval timetables at a macroscopic level of detail how it is used in long-term planning. It's versatile for timetable planning in various domains. Features include interactive editing, graphic timetables, train run editing, and logistics analysis.**  

NGE is used daily by Swiss Federal Railways (SBB) planners for developing macroscopic long-term timetable concepts. It enables quick creation of new ideas as variants, their analysis, and decision-making on their feasibility. NGE offers various functions to enhance the efficiency and optimization of traffic in a network.  

As a user-friendly and interactive graphical editor, the software allows for the creation and editing of regular-interval timetables through a visual interface. This interface makes it easy to visualize and adjust the network. Lines (train runs) in the Netzgrafik can be transferred into a graphical timetable (time–distance diagram) representation. 

Planners can manually draw and edit the train runs as if arranging pearls on a string. This feature enables them to define crucial aspects of the traffic network and tailor it to specific requirements and constraints. The software allows planners to extract important information, such as departure and destination stations, departure and arrival times, and train frequency.

Based on the network and the timetables, the software provides insights into connection and transfer times. This facilitates optimization and efficiency improvement in a transport system. Additionally, infrastructure requirements can be estimated, aiding in infrastructure planning and decision-making.

Much of the logic is implemented in the frontend in TypeScript rather than in the backend. This is because performance and interactivity are crucial. Low latency and maximum responsiveness are thus ensured in the frontend.  

The Netzgrafik-Editor (NGE), initially developed as an internal innovation project at SBB, became open source in 2024. Similarly, the SNCF’s Open Source Railway Designer (OSRD) focuses on microscopic medium and short-term timetabling, capacity analysis, and simulation. In 2024, a productive collaboration began between the two development teams. This collaboration led to contributions from the OSRD team to the NGE project. In return, the OSRD team integrated NGE components into their software. Such a fruitful collaboration would have been highly unlikely without the OpenRail Association.

Open issues
*For each project we will add the incubation stage as a small visiual indicator using the [badge](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation/technical-committee/issues/42).*
* *more Technology*
* *Potential, future perspective*

